----------------------------------------
Tagliatelle with Lamb
----------------------------------------

Ingredients

    For the the tagliatelle:
    300gr (2 cups 1/4) "00" soft wheat flour
    3 fresh large size eggs
    2 spoons olive oil
    1 tsp salt

    For the lamb:
    300-500gr lamb
    1 tsp salt
    1 tsp black pepper

    For the sauce:
    50gr butter, unsalted
    1/2 yellow or white onion, chopped
    50gr heavy cream
    1 tbsp dill
    1 tbsp flour

Directions

    For the pasta:

    - Put the flour on a marble/wooden work surface at least
      60x60cm. Make a well in the middle of the flour. Crack the
      eggs into it and add olive oil & salt.

    - With a fork, lightly whisk the eggs while gathering flour
      from the wall of the well gradually.

    - When the mixture gets too thick or clumped to continue with
      the fork, continue with your hands and begin to kneed. Kneed
      for 10 minutes.

    - Wrap the dough in plastic wrap tighly (twist it) and make it
      rest at room temperature for at least 15 minutes. You can
      then optionally place the dough in the refridgerator until
      later.

    - Take the dough out of the fridge and split it into 3 parts
      with a large knife. Take one and make it circular by hand,
      put some flour on the work surface, and roll it out as
      thinly as possible (3mm) using a rolling pin. (You should be
      able to "read a newspaper" through it).

    - Sprinkle the surface with a bit of flour to avoid sticking,
      then gently roll it up into a loose stack upon itself so you
      can cut the full length with a single knife slice. Trim the
      edges and cut into 1cm thin strips lengthwise (5mm for
      tagliolini or 2cm for pappardelle).

    - Unravel the cut pasta and sprinkle with a bit more flour to
      prevent sticking. This pasta is ready to cook in boiling
      water with salt. Fresh pasta will typically cook in 2-4
      minutes, unlike dried pasta.

    For the lamb & sauce:

    - Season the lamb with the salt & pepper and bake it in the
      oven or on the stove top until it reaches 140°F internal
      temperature. Trim fat and cut into small pieces.

    - In a small skillet (use the lamb skillet if you cooked it on
      the stovetop), melt the butter over medium heat.

    - When the butter begins to simmer, add the onion and cook
      until soft but do not brown.

    - Add the heavy cream to the skillet slowly, stirring to mix
      with the onion and butter.

    - Separate a small bit of the liquid from the pan and mix it
      with the tbsp of flour to thicken it. When well blended, add
      it back to the pan and stir.

    - Add the dill to the mixture and fold in. Let it rest in the
      heat for a few minutes before mixing with the pasta.

    - Mix pasta with lamb & sauce and serve.

    Serves 6.
