From: lind...@cs.umn.edu (Paul Lindner)
Newsgroups: comp.unix.misc,comp.protocols.tcp-ip
Subject: Internet Gopher v0.2 Curses Client and Server is available
Message-ID: <1991Sep10.020238.4751@cs.umn.edu>
Date: 10 Sep 91 02:02:38 GMT
Reply-To: lind...@boombox.micro.umn.edu
Followup-To: comp.unix.misc
Organization: University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, CSci dept.
Lines: 48


                         The Internet Gopher
                  A Distributed Information Service

         Unix-Server, Curses-Client Release 0.2, 9 Sep. 1991

                       University of Minnesota
                  Computer and Information Services

The Internet Gopher is a distributed docuemnt delivery service.   It
allows a neophyte user to access various types of data residing on
multiple hosts in a seamless fashion.  This is accomplished by
presenting the user a hierarchical arrangement of documents and by
using a client-server communications model.  The Internet Gopher
Curses Client allows a user on a terminal to access the vast array of
information available on various gopher servers.  The Internet Gopher
Server accepts simple queries, and responds by sending the client a
document.

Also included in the release are experimental clients and servers for
real-time radio, utilities for using gopher in shell scripts (written
in perl), and some sound utilities for NeXT machines.

Other Internet Gopher Software available includes:

Macintosh Gopher client written in HyperCard.
Macintosh Gopher Server software.
PC Gopher Client with a Borland Turbo Vision Interface.
Full Text Indexing servers for NeXT machines.
NeXT Gopher client (provided by Max Tardiveau of the University of St.
                    Thomas.)

All of this software is available for anonymous ftp to
boombox.micro.umn.edu (128.101.95.95) in the /pub/gopher directory.

The Internet Gopher Development Team can be reached via e-mail as
gop...@boombox.micro.umn.edu.  If you prefer paper we can be reached
at:

Internet Gopher Team
132 Shepherd Labs
100 Union Street SE
Minneapolis, MN 55455
--
 | Paul Lindner | lind...@boombox.micro.umn.edu   |"You have to spit
 |              | Computer & Information Services | to see the shine..."
 |              | University of Minnesota         | -- Babes in Toyland
