----------------------------------------
Go Bag
September 24th, 2017
----------------------------------------

This is a little bit of a cross-post from my blog [0] and a little bit of
a response to a bboard discussion in GENERAL about preparedness month [1]. This
is from a couple years ago and a few of my items have changed. I have a better
ultralight wood stove, some more stuff in my trauma kit, the usual. Enjoy!


It's become somewhat of the popular joke to have a post about Zombie Survival
these days, so I guess I'll toss my two-cents into the fray. Personally, I've
never been much concerned with the Zombie menace, but there many other possible
scenarios out there that call for readiness in the face of limited resources,
disrupted public services, and downright chaos. With that (and an impending
hurricane) in mind, I'd like to share my personal emergency kit with you all.

Let me first preface this by saying that this is far from everything I have
prepared in case of emergency. Rather, this represents my “grab bags” of
absolute essentials that we would take with us in case of a zero-warning
evacuation or similar event. Were we limited to traveling only on foot, I might
drop an item or two (dutch oven). Were we given a few minutes and the ability
to take the car, I might add a few heavier things.

I have also omitted almost all of my clothing from this kit, mainly because I
didn't want to go digging around in my closet. If you decide to mimic this, or
use it for inspiration, just use some basic common sense in your clothing
choices: layers, avoid cotton, pack light, bring extra socks.

Gear Left MTM Survivor Dry Box with O-Ring Seal

This box is the core to my medical kit. It is waterproof, tough-as-hell, and
bright orange to find it quick in a hurry. It even has a handy little compass
on the top. How quaint!

Adventure Medical Kits Trauma Packwith QuikClot

For serious trauma like gunshot wounds or tree branches through your chest, you
need more than a bandaid. While the need may be uncommon, having this cheap
little pack might just save your life, or the life of someone you love. It
takes up very little space, too.

Quake Kare Emergency Thermal Blankets (4 Pack)

I hope to never have to need this level of extra thermals, but for an ounce and
the tiniest bit of space, these provide us a “blanket” of security. Terrible
joke, I know.

OtterBox 1000 Series Waterproof Case

These are my waterproof cases within the waterproof case. If there's one thing
you never, ever want to get wet, it's your emergency bandages and medicines.
This extra level of protection is absolutely imperetive in my opinion. Also, if
you have anything really sensitive that needs to stay dry, toss it in one of
these. I find that three of them are enough to fit the Medique kit below.

Medique 40061 First Aid Kit, 61-Piece

This handy medical kit has it all, short of a hospital, anyway. If you think
you'll have a need for extras of a particular thing, don't hesitate. If there's
one area you shouldn't skimp, it's first aid. If you're using this as your
household first aid kit, remember to replenish items as you use them. You don't
want to get trapped without any bandages because you “just haven't made it back
to CVS yet.”

Etón FR160R Microlink Self-Powered AM/FM/NOAA Weather Radio with
Flashlight, Solar Power and Cell Phone Charger (Red)

This thing is a beast. I charged it with the hand crank for just over ten
seconds and then sat listening to the radio all day long. If you plan on
staying in touch with the outside world (or at least informed), having a backup
radio with NOAA stations is important. Besides, this little guy will charge
your cellphone too!

Rothco 550lb. Type III Nylon Paracord

I'm an Eagle Scout, and thus I never feel lost if I have a good length of rope.
Paracord is extremely strong for its size, but it packs down light and tight.
Use it for everything and everything from a clothesline to animal traps in the
worst of situations.

3M Scotch Heavy Duty All-Weather Duct Tape, 1.88-Inch by
45-Yard, 1-Pack (2245)

Don't settle for the cheap duct tape. Get the good outdoor all-weather stuff.
One roll should be more than enough to patch things up, bandage you up, make a
stretcher, or any number of other tasks.

Hand Axe

If your kit needs to help you out past a day or two, being able to work with
the natural resources around you is imperitive. Chop up some downed branches
for a fire. Clear a space for your family. Make some posts for hanging a trash
bag (instant trash bin). Be creative and live in outdoor luxury with this.

Chainmate CM-24SSP 24-Inch Survival Pocket Chain Saw With Pouch

If you find yourself working with tough wood that needs clearing, having the
right tools makes all the difference. Your hatchet can do a lot, but sometimes
its nice to have a saw too. This thing is tiny and super light. Add it to the
bag and then hope you don't need it.

ADC Medicut Shears, 7-1/4”

Most scissors are weak and useless when it comes to anything other than
wrapping paper. These things have some real power, and they'll get the job done
again and again. You can even sharpen them!

Snow Peak Titanium Spork

Ok, there's really no reason for this at all. I just love having a titanium
spork on the list. Sue me.

Entrenching Tool

My advice for survival scenarios: Learn how to make a latrine. Seriously. It'll
take you five minutes to watch a video on youtube and it will make your outdoor
living much, much easier.

Leatherman

While I wouldn't rely on one of these guys solo, having all the little tools is
a help. Suppliment your main knife with any old Leatherman model to add
versitility.

Beretta Airlight II Tactical Knife, 30% Serrated 2.25” Skeleton Blade

I'm a bit of a knife junkie. Beretta makes a killer folding knife. If you have
a solid blade like the Mora Classic below, this isn't exactly necessary, but
you can think of it as a backup if that makes you feel better. You certainly
don't want to end up bladeless. These are your primary tools of survival.

Smith's PP1 Pocket Pal Multifunction Sharpener

A dull knife is almost as bad as no knife. If you're going to be using them…
really using them, keep them sharp. This will also help you in cases of
accidental cuts. A clean cut heals much faster and with less chance of
infection.

Potable Aqua Water Treatment Tablets

Clean water is absolutely essential to survival. There are a ton of options
available thanks to fancy technologies these days. Get a filter pump or some
sort of reverse osmosis device and live like kings. Just make sure to grab some
iodine tablets as a backup. Filters break sometimes. These might make your
water taste tinny, but you'll live. (Side note: you can also use bleach to
purify water!)

Petzl E97 Tikka Plus 2 Headlamp

In the redundency department, along with your knives, add light to the list. A
headlamp will keep your hands free to do work. They last a really long time
with LEDs.

Gerber Infinity Ultra Task Light

Bring a flashlight, but not one with huge, honkin' D batteries. They're harder
to find replacements than AA, and much heavier.

Bic Lighters

Get them at your local store for next to nothing. Have a few handy, along with
some matches in your dry-box, just in case. And while you're watching survival
videos on how to make latrines, you might as well learn to make a fire too.
Don't rely on watching as knowing, though. Give it some practice before you
need the skill.

Mora Sweden Classic #1 Red Wood Handle Carbon Steel Knife

Very few knives are better than this one. At 15$, you can afford to get extras
too. Treat them well: sharpened, oiled, not chipped. They'll last a lifetime.

Folding Camp Saw

Another backup for your chainsaw. Or maybe the chainsaw is the backup. If
you're going to stay outdoors for any length of time, bring a saw.

Datrex 3600 Emergency Food Bar

You'll notice I haven't put much in the way of food on this list. That's
because you should spend some time learning your local edibles before you need
them. Learn what berries you can eat, and also what animals are in your area.
Learn to make a snare. Don't bother wasting time hunting deer unless you
already have all the gear and experience. Set snares around your camp instead.
It's more reliable. If all else fails, these emergency food bars are good for
up to 5 years and pack enough calories to keep you going for a long, long time.

Camelbak or Platypus

You're going to need water containers. Have a variety, but don't keep them all
filled up. Learn to treat your water so you don't have to carry it all with
you. Carry the empty containers with a minimum amout of water for drinking as
you travel, then fill them up when you stop, treat them, and save yourself the
weight. 1 liter of water weights about 1kg. That adds up quick.

Youngstown Glove 05-3080-70-L General Utility Lined with KEVLAR Glove Large

The most common place to injure yourself working in survival situations is on
your hands. Protect them with more than a pair of designer cotton gloves. These
guys have Kevlar on the insides and outsides of your hands. Fantastic, and
worth the price. Test them out with some yard work and you'll see what I mean.

Backpacker Poncho

Get a poncho that will keep you and your stuff dry.

Gossamer Gear Mariposa Ultralight Backpack

Pack choices are a highly personal decision. I'm an ultra-light backpacker, so
this relatively cheap bag from Gossamer Gear is a fantastic fit for me.
Remember, you may need to carry your emergency gear at some point. You can't
just rely on the car to get you everwhere. Plan ahead for the un-fun
possibilities.

Minus33 100% Merino Wool Base Layer 703 LightWeight Short Sleeve Crew Neck Top

I don't want to go over clothing too much, but let me make a brief mention
about the basics here. Pack in layers: base layer, mid layer, outer layer,
insulation. Avoid cotton or other fabrics that won't hold your heat when wet.
You might spend some time being dirty. That's ok. Pick things that you can wear
again and again and that will hold together. Quality over quantity here.

Lodge Logic Dutch Oven with Loop Handles

This luxury will probably the first thing to be left behind if we have to set
out on foot. It's damn heavy, but what a versitile cooking tool. It works in
your oven, in your fireplace, or on a campfire. It cleans up with a quick rinse
and is ready to go again. Pure camping-cooking heaven.

Outdoor Research Wind Pro Balaclava

Leave the baseball cap. Dress for function, not form. This will keep you warm,
and that's what's really important.

Spectra® Braided Cord 1050lb test - Heavy Duty Speargun Line
(1/8”DIA x 100ft LEN)

This cord is great for any number of uses, but it is in the kit especially for
hanging a bear-bag. I use the PCT method myself, so I have the tools to fit it.
In a pinch, though, you can get away with just a bag and line. Wildlife have
incredible senses of smells. Remember, if you are outside, you don't have walls
keeping your food and gear safe. Be wary and hang your food.

Stuff Sacks (Bear Bag, etc)

To go along with the line above, these stuff sacks from zpacks are wonderful.
They weigh almost nothing and are very sturdy.

Tempest Tent

There's a lot of ways to make a shelter outdoors. This is a pretty hardcore
4-season lightweight tent. It's not the cheapest solution, nor the best in all
situations. I use it for a variety of camping conditions outside of my
emergency kit. If you aren't much of an outdoorsman, there's probably a better
shelter for you. Ask around at Gander Mtn or REI, or bug your local scouts when
they try to sell you popcorn.

Littlbug Junior Stove

There's a lot of stove options for the backcountry. White gas, kerosene, etc,
are all valid. This “stove” is little more than a wind-shield and chimney for a
tiny wood fire. It fits in my ultra-light model. If you know how to make a
fire, this might work for you. If you get something more fancy, have a backup,
and make sure you have plenty of fuel.

Snow Peak Ti-Mini Solo Combo Cook Set

Have something to heat up water. In survival situations, many times “cooking”
literally means, “add hot water”. Heat to purify. Heat to rehydrate. Heat!

Snow Peak Ti-Double H600 Stacking Mug

This mug stacks nicely with the cookset above, so I have a pot for heating the
water, and a cup for eating. It keeps my cooking pot clean.

Z Lite Mattress

Sleeping on the ground can be rough. Go easy on your back with a little layer.
More importantly, get some insulation between your body and the ground. The
earth will suck the heat right out of you.

Jacks-R-Better Sierra Sniveler

I have horrible restless leg syndrome, and most sleeping bags feel like a
coffin to me. A nice power-down quilt gives me the warmth I need at night
without the restrictive footbox. Pick whatever works for you. The single most
dangerous thing when you are forced to sleep outside is exposure. You will die
from exposure in a single night. Make sure you have good shelter before you
even worry about water or food.

waterBOB Emergency Drinking Water Storage

If you are going to be staying in your house without power for a while, toss
this into your bathtub and fill it up right away. 100 gallons of water will
last you a while. Purify it to drink, grab a bucket and pour it in the back of
your toilet to flush it manually, clean yourself up. Just remember to be more
conservative if you are unlikely to have help or power restored in the near
future. It may have to last a while.

[0] https://blog.tomasino.org/post/zombie-survival-kit/
[1] https://ready.gov
